



Network Management Operations                                    I. Busi
Internet-Draft                                                  H. Zheng
Intended status: Informational                       Huawei Technologies
Expires: 11 July 2026                                            X. Zhao
                                                                   Y. Xu
                                                                   CAICT
                                                          7 January 2026


  Applicability of Service & Infrastructure Maps (SIMAP) to Transport
                                Networks
                 draft-busi-nmop-transport-simap-latest

Abstract

   This document explores the applicability of the Service &
   Infrastructure Maps (SIMAP) concepts to transport networks and it
   examines the YANG data models defined by the IETF to support the
   requirements and use cases for SIMAP applicability to transport
   networks.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://italobusi.github.io/transport-simap/draft-busi-nmop-
   transport-simap.html.  Status information for this document may be
   found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-busi-nmop-transport-
   simap/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Network Management
   Operations mailing list (mailto:nmop@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/nmop/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/nmop/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/italobusi/transport-simap.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 11 July 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Terminology
   2.  Overview of Key Requirements for Transport SIMAP
     2.1.  Resource and Bandwidth status
     2.2.  Delay Measurement
     2.3.  Availability
     2.4.  Real-time Evaluation (Risk?)
   3.  Use Cases
     3.1.  Service Provisioning
     3.2.  Alarm and Incident
     3.3.  Risk Prediction
   4.  YANG Models Applicability
     4.1.  Planning and Service Provisioning
     4.2.  Alarm and Incident
     4.3.  Risk Prediction
   5.  Security Considerations
   6.  IANA Considerations
   7.  References
     7.1.  Normative References
     7.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   The concept of Service & Infrastructure Maps (SIMAP) is being defined
   in [I-D.ietf-nmop-simap-concept] together with a set of SIMP
   requirements and use cases.

   A transport network is a server-layer network designed to provide
   connectivity services for a client-layer network to carry the client
   traffic transparently across the server-layer network resources.

   A transport network typically utilizes several different transport
   technologies such as the Optical Transport Networks (OTN) or
   Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM).

   The concept of SIMAP applies to any type of networks, including but
   not being limited to transport networks.

   This document complements the definitions in
   [I-D.ietf-nmop-simap-concept] providing specific requirements and use
   cases for SIMAP applicability to transport networks.

   It also examines the YANG data models defined by the IETF to support
   these specific requirements and use cases at the northbound interface
   of an optical network controller.

1.1.  Terminology

   The following terms are defined in [I-D.ietf-nmop-simap-concept] and
   are not redefined here:

   *  Service & Infrastructure Maps (SIMAP)

   The following terms are defined in [rfc9543] and are not redefined
   here:

   *  Service Level Agreement (SLA)

      Editors' Note: should we differentiate between SLA, SLO, SLE and
      SLI within this I-D?

2.  Overview of Key Requirements for Transport SIMAP

   TODO Overview of Key Requirements for Transport SIMAP

2.1.  Resource and Bandwidth status

2.2.  Delay Measurement

2.3.  Availability

2.4.  Real-time Evaluation (Risk?)

3.  Use Cases

3.1.  Service Provisioning

   A transport network provides connectivity services to carry the
   client traffic transparently.

   In order to allow monetization of the transport network connectivity
   services, transport networks are evolving to support connectivity
   services with differentiated SLAs.

   Transport networks can support connectivity services with different
   requirements in terms of bandwidth, delay and availability, or any
   combination of them.  For examples, some services may have different
   bandwidth requirements (e.g., 10G, 100G) or different delay
   requirements or different availability requirements.  Other services
   can have both bandwidth and delay requirements or both delay and
   availability requirements.

   An optical network controller is able to receive connectivity service
   requests with constraints in terms of bandwidth or delay or
   availability or any combination of them.

   A transport network typically utilizes several different transport
   technologies such as the Optical Transport Networks (OTN) or
   Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM).  Therefore the request to
   setup a new connectivity service would trigger multi-layer path
   computation and setup e.g. to determine whether:

   1.  an OTN tunnel already exists within the transport network to
       carry the new requested connectivity service while meeting the
       requested bandwidth, delay and availability requirements: in this
       case the optical network controller just configures the
       connectivity service on the two devices at the edge of the
       selected OTN tunnel;

   2.  a new OTN tunnel needs to be setup with the transport network and
       whether the path of this new OTN tunnel:

       a.  can re-use existing links or server-layer WDM tunnels: in
           this case the optical network controller starts the OTN
           tunnel setup procedure (e.g., through GMPLS signalling) and
           then configures the connectivity service on the two devices
           at the edge of the just set up OTN tunnel;

       b.  requires the setup of one ore more new WDM tunnels within the
           transport network: in this case the optical network
           controller:

           i.    starts the WDM tunnel setup procedure (e.g., through
                 GMPLS signalling) for all the new WDM tunnels which
                 need to be setup;

           ii.   start the OTN tunnel setup procedure (e.g., through
                 GMPLS signalling);

           iii.  configures the connectivity service on the two devices
                 at the edge of the just set up OTN tunnel.

   The WDM path computation performed by the optical controller needs to
   have the complete visibility of all the resources within the WDM
   layer in order to compute the optimal feasible optical path, taking
   into account the characteristics (e.g., optical impairments) of the
   ROADM nodes, the capabilities of the transceivers.  It also needs to
   know the existing OTSi signals within the optical network to
   determine the optical impairment impact of the existing OTSi signals
   on the optical feasibility of a new OTSi signal and vice versa, i.e.,
   the impact of the new OTSi on the existing OTSi signals: see
   Section 2.3.1 of [I-D.ietf-ccamp-optical-impairment-topology-yang].

   In order to provide the requested level of availability, optical path
   computation at any layer (e.g., OTN or WDM) shall be able to compute
   SRLG disjoint paths in order to avoid that a single failure would
   impact also the backup path.

   Manual configuration of SRLG is error-prone because of human errors
   and the lack of complete information on how the physical
   infrastructure is built (e.g., where the fibers are physically lay
   down).

   The optical controller can implement advanced algorithms to
   automatically detect co-cabling (i.e., fibers which are assembled
   within the same cable) as well as co-trenching (i.e., cables which
   are lay down on the same trench).  These automatic mechanisms can
   reduce the errors in provisioning SRLG information thus improving the
   provisioning of services with guaranteed availability.

   The mechanisms used by the optical controller to detect co-cabling
   and co-trenching are implementation specific and outside the scope of
   standardization.  The Transport SIMAP reports the output of these
   mechanisms thought standardized network topology and inventory
   models.

3.2.  Alarm and Incident

   Alarm and Incident are defined in [I-D.ietf-nmop-terminology].

   In transport network an incident can cause alarms or state down on
   multiple tunnels and services.  For example: - a fiber break will
   cause all the WDM tunnels routed through this fiber to go down; - a
   WDM tunnel failure will cause all the OTN tunnels routed through it
   to go down; - an OTN tunnel failure will cause all the services
   (e.g., CBR or Ethernet services) supported by it to go down.

   Note that, while usually an OTN tunnel can carry only one service,
   there are some cases where multiple services are multiplexed over the
   same OTN tunnel.

   When an accident occurs in the transport network, Transport SIMAP is
   able to report the root alarm/condition (e.g., the fiber break) that
   is associated with the incident and all the consequent alarms/
   conditions (e.g., WDM tunnels, OTN tunnels and services being down).

   This will allow the operator to know which tunnels and services are
   impacted by the incident and which is the root cause to be resolved
   in order to bring them up again.

   By supporting the co-cabling and co-trenching mechanisms, the
   Transport SIMAP can also provide a deeper analysis of the incident.
   For example, if a cable breaks, Transport SIMAP can report the cable
   break as the root cause for the consequent alarms reporting fiber
   breaks.

   [I-D.ietf-nmop-network-incident-yang] provide also more details about
   incident management.

3.3.  Risk Prediction

      Related with protection and restoration.  Current approach is
      based on the monitoring of the status of the connection (SF or SD)
      triggering re-routing.  SF is mainly related to loss of
      continuity.  What about latency degradation?

      Provide more enhanced SD definitions (latency)

   When a connectivity service with availability requirements is
   requested, the optical controller can decide to configure some
   resiliency (e.g., protection or restoration) mechanisms within the
   network to recover the service traffic in case a failure or a
   degradation occur.

   Transport SIMAP reports the configuration of the mechanism as well as
   its status.

   In particular, after a failure or a degradation occurs, the service
   resiliency mechanism may be in a state which will not allow the
   transport network to recover any additional failure (for example, the
   1+1 protection mechanism is not able to recover from the failure of
   the secondary path after the primary path has failed and the traffic
   has switched to the secondary path).

   Based on the status of the resiliency mechanism reported by Transport
   SIMAP, the customer may request to reconfigure the service
   availability requirements (e.g., from 1+1 to always-1+1) or do
   nothing.

      More discussion to be done based on the availability monetization
      description

4.  YANG Models Applicability

   TODO YANG Models Applicability

4.1.  Planning and Service Provisioning

   TODO Evaluate: OTN/WDM/ETH topology, Tunnel, client-signal, path
   computation models.  Planning maybe a gap or Inventory (location) is
   sufficient

4.2.  Alarm and Incident

   TODO Evaluate: RFC8632, Incident models

4.3.  Risk Prediction

   TODO Evaluate: performance monitoring models

5.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

6.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

   [I-D.ietf-nmop-simap-concept]
              Havel, O., Claise, B., de Dios, O. G., and T. Graf,
              "SIMAP: Concept, Requirements, and Use Cases", Work in
              Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-nmop-simap-concept-
              07, 18 October 2025,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-nmop-
              simap-concept-07>.

   [rfc9543]  Farrel, A., Ed., Drake, J., Ed., Rokui, R., Homma, S.,
              Makhijani, K., Contreras, L., and J. Tantsura, "A
              Framework for Network Slices in Networks Built from IETF
              Technologies", RFC 9543, DOI 10.17487/RFC9543, March 2024,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9543>.

7.2.  Informative References

   [I-D.ietf-ccamp-optical-impairment-topology-yang]
              Beller, D., Le Rouzic, E., Belotti, S., Galimberti, G.,
              and I. Busi, "A YANG Data Model for Optical Impairment-
              aware Topology", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              ietf-ccamp-optical-impairment-topology-yang-20, 10 October
              2025, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-
              ccamp-optical-impairment-topology-yang-20>.

   [I-D.ietf-nmop-network-incident-yang]
              Hu, T., Contreras, L. M., Wu, Q., Davis, N., and C. Feng,
              "A YANG Data Model for Network Incident Management", Work
              in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-nmop-network-
              incident-yang-07, 3 January 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-nmop-
              network-incident-yang-07>.

   [I-D.ietf-nmop-terminology]
              Davis, N., Farrel, A., Graf, T., Wu, Q., and C. Yu, "Some
              Key Terms for Network Fault and Problem Management", Work
              in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-nmop-terminology-
              23, 18 August 2025,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-nmop-
              terminology-23>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

   Italo Busi
   Huawei Technologies
   Email: italo.busi@huawei.com


   Haomian Zheng
   Huawei Technologies
   H1, Huawei Xiliu Beipo Village, Songshan Lake
   Dongguan
   Guangdong, 523808
   China
   Email: zhenghaomian@huawei.com


   Xing Zhao
   CAICT
   China
   Email: zhaoxing@caict.ac.cn


   Yunbin Xu
   CAICT
   Email: xuyunbin@caict.ac.cn
